When a person has the condition known as aortic stenosis,
their aortic valve becomes narrow or restricted
and prevents blood flow from the heart out to the body.
This causes the heart to work harder,
resulting in an enlarged heart.
The overworked heart may eventually fail
which is commonly known as heart failure.
The symptoms of heart failure include:
Shortness of breath
Chest pain
Fatigue
Dizziness
Leg swelling
Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement or TAVR
is a minimally invasive procedure for patients with
severe aortic stenosis
and is an alternative to open-heart surgery.
The benefits of TAVR are:
Less invasive
Shorter hospital stay
Shorter recovery time
Less pain
The TAVR procedure typically takes
between one to two hours.
A small puncture or incision
is made through the groin to access an artery,
and a catheter is guided to the location of the valve.
A special device with the valve
is guided into place inside of your diseased valve
while your heart is beating.
The old valve’s leaflets are pushed up against
the walls of the heart and the new valve is inserted.
The new valve begins working right away.
These valves are made of bovine tissue and fabric.
The catheters are taken out
and a stitch will be placed in your groin.
After the procedure,
patients can usually go home the same day
or the following day.
Some people feel better right away.
For most people,
it takes a few months to fully recover.